README.md, before:

## The plot of the code:

1. See the comment at the end of the file for deatils about the MPI-scheduler.

2. The main program (MP) reads all the parameters from an input HDF5-archive (each process independently, read-only).

3. MP decides based on parameters the type of input field. Fist implementation: stick to numerical fields from CUPRAD stored in the archive.

4. MPI-scheduler executes a simulation in every point. THe data are directly written into the output using the mutex.

5. The code finishes.

- DEVELOPMENT: wrap the call of singleTDSE, where propagation is called to test, erase this extra step after


## Extensions/features already presented in 1DTDSE
THere is a list of features we added in the code throughout the time, we don't have them in the sheduler. But it would be worthy to re-introduce them simply by modifying the output structure.

- The features already presented in TDSE:
	1. Print wavefunction (WFT)
	2. Print Gabor transformation
	3. Photoelectron spectrum (PeS, Fabrice)
  4. Various outputs modifications (e.g. ionisation filtering done for Sophie)

Gabor is computationally demanding; WF and PeS are both data-storage demandig. It should be used then only in few prescribed points.


--There is possibility of various inputs:
	1. Numerical/analytic field
	2. Computation on velocity/length gauge

We have already an analytic model of a beam (Python/MATLAB), we will then rewrite it and construct the parameters on-the-fly.
The versatility in numeric-or-analytic field length-or-velocity gauge is ideal for testing of numerical vector potential that we can use after in SFA.


## Development notes:
<pre>
1) We can use checks whether parameters exist in the input HDF5-archive. If not, we can create them with default values.
Implementation: since this is I/O operation with one file, we need r/w. Maybe read paramc only by proc 0 and the broadcast structure (see the MPI book for transfering structs).

For reading, it should be easy. ** R/W may occur simultaneously in in the MPI loop. Separate I/O at the instant or ensure it will work (R/W from independent datasets may be fine???).
https://support.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/Tutor/selectsimple.html


2) we get rid of mutexes and use rather parallel acces to files all the time.
2.develop) it seems that many-readers many-writers would be possible by HDF5 parallel since we will not modify the file much. However, we may also try stick with independent files and eventually 
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49851046/merge-all-h5-files-using-h5py
https://portal.hdfgroup.org/display/HDF5/Collective+Calling+Requirements+in+Parallel+HDF5+Applications
</pre>

Commit message:

mid-transformation of t-length outputs
The length of outputs is given by the TDSE refinement, we thus create respective dataset at that point.

README.md, after:

## The plot of the code:

1. See the comment at the end of the file for deatils about the MPI-scheduler.

2. The main program (MP) reads all the parameters from an input HDF5-archive (each process independently, read-only).

3. MP decides based on parameters the type of input field. Fist implementation: stick to numerical fields from CUPRAD stored in the archive.

4. MPI-scheduler executes a simulation in every point. THe data are directly written into the output using the mutex.

5. The code finishes.

- DEVELOPMENT: wrap the call of singleTDSE, where propagation is called to test, erase this extra step after

!!! There is memory allocated in every TDSE. Check there are no memory leaks, it matters now.


## Extensions/features already presented in 1DTDSE
THere is a list of features we added in the code throughout the time, we don't have them in the sheduler. But it would be worthy to re-introduce them simply by modifying the output structure.

- The features already presented in TDSE:
	1. Print wavefunction (WFT)
	2. Print Gabor transformation
	3. Photoelectron spectrum (PeS, Fabrice)
  4. Various outputs modifications (e.g. ionisation filtering done for Sophie)

Gabor is computationally demanding; WF and PeS are both data-storage demandig. It should be used then only in few prescribed points.


--There is possibility of various inputs:
	1. Numerical/analytic field
	2. Computation on velocity/length gauge

We have already an analytic model of a beam (Python/MATLAB), we will then rewrite it and construct the parameters on-the-fly.
The versatility in numeric-or-analytic field length-or-velocity gauge is ideal for testing of numerical vector potential that we can use after in SFA.


## Development notes:
<pre>
1) We can use checks whether parameters exist in the input HDF5-archive. If not, we can create them with default values.
Implementation: since this is I/O operation with one file, we need r/w. Maybe read paramc only by proc 0 and the broadcast structure (see the MPI book for transfering structs).

For reading, it should be easy. ** R/W may occur simultaneously in in the MPI loop. Separate I/O at the instant or ensure it will work (R/W from independent datasets may be fine???).
https://support.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/Tutor/selectsimple.html

2) Actual construction does some prparations within 1 TDSE simulation, it is desirable to separate preparations and core propagation, it's then more versatile for the MPI-calling.
2.solution) pass all by reference and pre-allocate all necessary in main.

3) The code is inconsistent. SOme outputs from the first version are listed as independent variables and not encapsulated in structures. Fix it.

4) we get rid of mutexes and use rather parallel acces to files all the time.
4.develop) it seems that many-readers many-writers would be possible by HDF5 parallel since we will not modify the file much. However, we may also try stick with independent files and eventually 
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49851046/merge-all-h5-files-using-h5py
https://portal.hdfgroup.org/display/HDF5/Collective+Calling+Requirements+in+Parallel+HDF5+Applications
</pre>
